leaf area index is a great way for
farmers plant scientists and ecologists
to track the health and growth of plants
over time leaf area index or la I is one
sided leaf surface area divided by the
ground area the gap fraction method is
the most practical way to measure leaf
area without damaging the plant gaps
fraction indicates how much of the sky
is visible from beneath the plant canopy
if you can see more skies the gap
fraction is bigger if you can see less
sky's the gap fraction is smaller the
amount of foliage can be calculated from
the gap fraction if we assume the leaves
are positioned randomly within the
canopy let's see how this works
how many leaves does it take to block
your view of the sky that depends on how
they are arranged if they don't overlap
it takes relatively few leaves to block
your view as the other extreme if those
same leaves are stacked on top of each
other not much of your view is blocked a
useful assumption is that the leaves are
positioned randomly which puts us
between these extremes with some leaf
overlap when leaves are randomly
arranged there is a simple exponential
relationship between leaf area index and
gap fractions this means we can compute
leaf area index from Gap fractions if we
measure the gap fraction of several
angles of view it turns out we can also
deduce something about the leaves
orientation are they laying flat
verticals or something in between if all
the leaves in the canopy are vertical
your view of the sky is barely blocked
looking straight up but if you look more
toward the horizon your view is mostly
block
with the same leaves laying flat on the
other hand you can see more sky looking
toward the horizon when you look
straight up your view is mostly blocked
as you can see gap fraction information
especially as a function of you angle is
quite powerful for indirectly estimating
canopy architecture how can we measure
gap fraction one method is photography
a high contrast fisheye photograph taken
from below lets you compute gap fraction
as a function of the view angle digital
processing can automate this but two
potential limitations are resolution
especially for small leaves and tall
canopies and differentiating bright
sunlit leaves from the sky background
another method for determining gap
fraction uses multiple measurements of
direct sunlight at different Sun angles
over time gap fraction for each Sun
angle is determined by how much the Sun
is blocked like la I 2200 see
plant canopy analyzer doesn't require
multiple Sun angles it uses a fisheye
lens to project a nearly hemispheric
image of the canopy and sky onto a ring
detector this lets you quickly get gap
fraction at five different angles by
comparing two readings one above the
canopy with one below the canopy a
single above canopy reading can serve as
a reference for a number of below canopy
readings
allowing the LA I 2200 si to quickly
measure leaf area index and foliage
orientation over a large area without
waiting for the sun's image
the la i 2200 fee comes with few
restrictions caps to limit the view and
small plus or to block the operator from
being viewed also some of the outer
rings can be masked restricting the
diameter of the cone-shaped area viewed
by the light sensor some canopies don't
conform to the assumption of random leaf
location a widely spaced row crop is a
good example a single below canopy
measurement can't represent the entire
field but if you take several
measurements along two or more diagonal
transects with a narrow view cap
attached the la i 2200 D can account for
the non-randomness
in the canopy simple that fraction
methods also generally assumed leaves
are perfectly black that they block all
sunlight in reality some sunlight passes
through or bounces off leaves this can
cause large errors especially when
sunlit leaves are in view the la i 2200
c deals with this issue in two ways
first it uses the blue filters that
improve the contrast between the leaves
and sky also a post-processing
correction is provided in the support
software this correction is based on a
powerful published light shattering
model it uses measurements of sky
conditions and foliage properties made
with the LA I 2200 feet
reliance on actual measurement pays off
with better results multiple studies
have proven an accuracy of the LA I 2200
fee with results that compare favorably
to destructive sampling method
what questions could you answer with
whiteboards plant canopy analyzer
contact us with your ideas and questions
[Music]